x/claims/spec/06_parameters.md, before:

<!--
order: 6
-->

# Parameters

The `x/claims` module contains the parameters described below. All parameters can be modified via governance.

| Key                  | Type            | Default Value                  |
|----------------------|-----------------|--------------------------------|
| `EnableClaim`        | `bool`          | `true`                         |
| `AirdropStartTime`   | `time.Time`     | `time.Time{}` // empty         |
| `DurationUntilDecay` | `time.Duration` | `2629800000000000` // 1 month  |
| `DurationOfDecay`    | `time.Duration` | `5259600000000000` // 2 months |
| `ClaimDenom`         | `string`        | `"aevmos"`                     |

## Enable claim

The `EnableClaim` parameter toggles all state transitions in the module. When the parameter is disabled, it will disable all the allocation of airdropped tokens to users.

## Airdrop Start Time

The `AirdropStartTime` refers to the time when user can start to claim the airdrop tokens.

## Duration Until Decay

`DurationUntilDecay` defines the duration from airdrop start time to decay start time.

## Duration Of Decay

Refers to the duration from decay start time to claim end time. Users are not able to claim airdrop after this duration has ended.

## Claim Denom

Defines the coin denomination that users will receive as part of their airdrop allocation.

Commit message:

audit(claims): state machine audit (#411)
* wip hooks audit

* wip state machine audit

* update specs

* wip state machine audit

* update specs with invariants

* wip state machine audit

* Update x/claims/keeper/ibc_callbacks.go

Co-authored-by: Federico Kunze Küllmer <31522760+fedekunze@users.noreply.github.com>

x/claims/spec/06_parameters.md, after:

<!--
order: 6
-->

# Parameters

The `x/claims` module contains the parameters described below. All parameters can be modified via governance.

| Key                  | Type            | Default Value                                               |
| -------------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- |
| `EnableClaim`        | `bool`          | `true`                                                      |
| `ClaimsDenom`        | `string`        | `"aevmos"`                                                  |
| `AirdropStartTime`   | `time.Time`     | `time.Time{}` // empty                                      |
| `DurationUntilDecay` | `time.Duration` | `2629800000000000` // 1 month                               |
| `DurationOfDecay`    | `time.Duration` | `5259600000000000` // 2 months                              |
| `AuthorizedChannels` | `[]string`      | `[]string{"channel-0", "channel-3"}` // Osmosis, Cosmos Hub |
| `EVMChannels`        | `[]string`      | `[]string{"channel-2"}` // Injective                        |

## Enable claim

The `EnableClaim` parameter toggles all state transitions in the module. When the parameter is disabled, it will disable all the allocation of airdropped tokens to users.

## Claims Denom

The `ClaimsDenom` parameter defines the coin denomination that users will receive as part of their airdrop allocation.

## Airdrop Start Time

The `AirdropStartTime` refers to the time when user can start to claim the airdrop tokens.

## Duration Until Decay

The `DurationUntilDecay` parameter defines the duration from airdrop start time to decay start time.

## Duration Of Decay

The `DurationOfDecay` parameter refers to the duration from decay start time to claim end time. Users are not able to claim airdrop after this duration has ended.

## Authorized Channels

The `AuthorizedChannels` parameter describes the set of channels that users can perform the ibc callback with to claim coins for the ibc action.

## EVM Channels

The `EVMChannels` parameter describes the list of Evmos channels that connected to EVM compatible chains and can be used during the ibc callback action.
